So before we move on to our hiking up there one more skill that I want to teach you and that's reverse
geocoding.
So the basic idea is that you give some sort of location.
Google Maps will give you back information about that location.
For example it's address that's all we're going to make is an app that can sort of take an address and
then get us back from there.
So we want to move forward with our map and location demo that we had from last time we just kind of
want to extend this just a little bit so we can do something cool.
Every time that we get a new address so we are going to move up to where we have the code for on location
change of course we still want to you know clear the map and then add all the new stuff.
That's great.
That's fine but there is one extra thing that we'd like to do and that's to work with something called
a geocoder.
So again Google Maps makes this incredibly simple that we pass at any latitude and longitude.
And then it's going to turn it into an address for us which is just great great stuff.
So what we're going to do first is we're just going to type out geocoder and we'll call this geocoder.
And with this geocoder we got a new geocoder and we are going to set this up with our application context
and from there we're going to go ahead and pass our low cal dot default.
So you might be wondering what this locale stuff is.
Well you'll notice if you do locale dot there's all sorts of different locales right in these different
locations around the world.
But if you do get default what this does is it basically says hey whatever the users current phone is
and if they're in Canada or if they're in the U.K. U.S. Japan or wherever it is that uses that locale
in order to get back the address information.
So once we've gone ahead and gotten that in place then we can go about trying to get some information
from our particular location.
So to do this we just access the geocoder we're going to say geocoder get from.
And we want get from location.
So this means we have to provide it a latitude and longitude and you can see this is where we can get
back that information.
So we're going to use our location object we're going to say location dot latitude that we're going
to say location that longitude and the last thing we asked for is the max results that we want back
because if you give to a particular location maybe a couple of different addresses around.
And you know you're wondering OK well which one of these is supposed to be correct.
Well you know you just want to give something there.
So let's just go ahead and do one to say just give us your best match of whatever it is that you found.
Now this is going to require a try catch.
So let's go ahead and just hover over here so we can get the auto try catch.
I'm going to change this instead of IO exception.
I'd like to do it just for all exceptions.
But once we have that we will go ahead and do a little bit of work with this and the first thing that
we basically want to do is make sure that we got back some information.
And so this geocoder it passes back a list of things and so we have to go ahead and put this into a
variable so we're going to say list not list view we want a list.
And we this is going to be a list of addresses just like that or we're going to give it the name of
list addresses.
OK.
So that's going to be equal to this geocoder thing then we got to check and see if we actually got the
info that we were looking for.
So let's set up an if statement.
And inside of their first check and see if list addresses is not equal to know if it's equal to know
that means we've got back nothing.
And the next thing that we want to check for is make sure that there's actually something there.
So we're going to say list addresses that size and we're going to make sure that that is greater than
zero.
OK.
So if this all works then this means that we actually have an address that we can work with.
So we're going to go ahead and do a log will say log that i we're going to pass in the here place info
and the second parameter that we'll throw in there is our list addresses and we're going to get the
first item in there because we only asked for one right in here and we said list address Maxtor results
one then with that we want to go ahead and convert that to a string so that we can see it.
OK.
So now that we've got this in place let's go ahead and run our app.
So we should be able to if we move to a particular location and we send that information we should get
that back.
So let's go ahead and find a place that we can actually look for.
Be cool maybe do something in New York.
So let's just search for New York let's do Empire State Building Empire State Building.
So should have a link for a map here.
Here we go and we'll go ahead and inside of this your all we can find that latitude and longitude on
that copy latitude Let's open up our simulator here emulator.
Plug that in there and then we need the longitude and we'll copy that OK once we pass those and then
we'll go ahead and send this and look at that.
Oh it took us to Antarctica.
That's not what I was expecting.
Let me go back and see did we miss something here.
Does this I mean is this supposed to be negative.
No I don't think that's our problem.
Let's see what happens if this is a positive 73 and that still puts us way above let's see what happens
if I do negative there.
Now that puts us in Greenland.
Wow.
OK.
Well I'm a little bit shocked that our latitude and longitude are so off let's separate tab.
Maybe we can't trust that latitude and longitude for New York.
Let's just see if we're even within the right ballpark here.
So 40 in 74 they're saying that both of those should be positive.
So 40 and 74.
Maybe I mix the two around so maybe this needs to go here and then this needs to be 40 now.
Let me go ahead and take a look at this real quick.
All right.
So I finally figured out what the issue was.
My latitude and longitude were off so I finally got those things hammered in and look at that.
We're in New York and hopefully at the Empire State Building here.
So once we've done that let's go ahead and go to log cat and you can see all the different places we
were going as we tried to find the correct location.
So that's pretty cool to see all those different addresses there.
And look I mean that this last one we got to New York so there's geocoding isn't perfect because.
Right.
Let's go ahead and look.
This is West 33rd Street in New York.
OK and if we go ahead and go back and look at the Empire State Building this says you know Fifth Avenue.
So I mean it is on that 31 32 33.
So I mean I think it's you know pretty close there but I mean it's not the exact address but I think
you could use it fairly reliably to at least get in the ballpark.
I mean an interesting thing to do would be to take the address that we get from our app here and then
plug that back in.
Which leads us to the next thing is how do we take this object this address object and turn it into
something that we can actually read and that the user can understand right like this West 33rd Street
and all that good stuff there.
OK.
So let's go ahead and talk about how we can do that.
So what we're going to do is let's give ourselves some space to work here after we've successfully made
sure that we've got an address here that we can work with.
Let's go ahead and make a string that we're going to call address.
And this initially is just going to be equal to an empty string and we're going to fill this address
up over time with information about the particular location.
So when we do this we kind of have to work through a couple of layers of stuff.
And let's go ahead and take a look again at log cat like what are some of the things that we'd want
to get out of here.
So if we go ahead and look some of these be could be like the locality New York that seems to be the
like state for example or maybe admin is going to be that also.
Right because we're in New York State.
New York City.
Let's see admen Pennsylvania.
So when we were over here locality Fredericktown OK so the localities the city the admins the state.
Right and you can see we can just kind of go through here the thoroughfare that seems to be like the
actual address so we kind of want to work through those pieces.
And again this is going to change depending on what your locality is.
Again you know if you're in the UK or China or Japan like I'm sure these are going to have different
names as you're moving through here unless this is some sort of standard things for addresses I think
you'd have to play around with it for whatever your address type is.
But regardless you find something that you want for example the admin.
So we've figured out the admin is equal to the state.
So what we're going to do is create an if statement.
Let's get that all set up.
And we first want to check and make sure that there's actually an actual thing there because you can
see sometimes like the sub admins are equal to.
No we're not going to be using sub admin in this situation.
But you know for example if admin was equal to NULL for some reason we would want to be able to appropriately
handle that.
So what we're going to do is first talk to our list addresses get zero.
That's getting that first address object and then with that we're going to do not yet.
And there's all sorts of different items here right.
So there's you know your rules and stuff like that we want to get the admin.
So we're going to get admin area.
And so once we get this admin area and just to check to show you what that is that gives us back a string.
We want to check and see what this is equal to and we're not trying to see if it's an empty string or
something like that we want to make sure that this thing is not equal to null.
No basically means that it doesn't exist something went wrong like that.
And so we're just checking for knowability here.
So if this thing is not know then we're going to say OK you know what we're going to take our address
and we're going to plus equal this line of code here where we go and get the admin right.
So this is throwing essentially the state onto their case.
So once we go ahead and get that in place as not only do we want to throw the state we also want to
throw on a space here so that we can add the next thing that's coming on the list and it's going to
be pretty similar.
So I think the next thing we'd look for is the city which in this case looks like New York.
So just go ahead and copy this and paste below instead of get admin area are you going to look for get
locality.
There we go and we want to change this.
Get the for here as well so that you know we're adding the appropriate thing to the address there.
So once we've got that in place the next thing that we're going to be looking for is the thoroughfare.
And so we'll go ahead and just copy and paste what we had before but this time we want that thoroughfare
because that seems to be thoroughfare because that seems to be where we can get that information.
Let's see is that I think that's about all that we're looking for latitude longitude.
Even some of these try and get the phone number that's kind of interesting there.
But yeah this looks pretty good.
So let's make sure we get thoroughfare here that we are copying and pasting that down below we don't
have to do the extra space there at the end because that's going to be the very last one.
But once you've gone ahead and gotten all those different pieces I mean you could get more detailed
if you want you could go and get the country name and stuff like that right like that.
Let's see it's listing USA.
I'm wondering what the name is to that.
There we go country name United States country code U.S..
You can go grab that you need and get the postcode.
Maybe that's at the postcode.
So let's see right now would be like New York New York.
I'm just thinking about how we do addresses and typically we do the street address first and then let's
go ahead and have something on to here.
And we usually do the city and then whoops.
Let me cut and paste this.
All right.
So we've got the street we've got the city we've got the state maybe we're a tween city and state we're
going to put the zip code in there that's I think something that would be good or call it here the postal
code so let's copy one of these changes to get postal code.
All right.
So copy and paste update that and then for our last one here where we get the the state will get rid
of the extra space.
All right.
So all of that work to go get this address and we'll go ahead here we'll make a toast and ring and say
toaster make text.
We'll go ahead and pass in the maps.
Activity dot this also pass in this address string that we've been building up and then say how long
we want to show it.
We'll do short here and then we'll make sure we'll do a show at the end because I seem to always forget
that.
So that looks like all the code that we need to get this in order to work so let's go ahead and give
this a run.
Again depending on where you live or how you want this address displayed you might want to change what
this looks like here through the different parts that we get.
But the big thing here is that we should be checking for the ability to make sure you know just in case
we get know on something we can recover from that.
So app opens up here should be on the Empire State Building.
We'll go ahead and hit send here and look at that West 33rd Street New York 1 0 0 1 New York.
So I'm also going to hear just because for fun I want to log in and plug back in the address and see
how close it is to the Empire State Building.
You know see how accurate Google is of an address.
Google is providing here so we'll say something like address and that will provide the actual address
there.
And let's run this.
Yeah this is kind of fun.
You know we searched Google for the location of the Empire State Building got the latitude and longitude
budget plugged it back into Google Maps to get the address.
We'll see if it all matches out.
I know that sounds kind of ridiculous that we're doing but we'll go ahead and send this the West 33rd
Street and look that printed out down there for us.
If we just copy this exactly.
Go back to our search bar and look for that it's pretty close.
So the Empire State Building was right over here.
At least I think it was right.
Now I'm starting to doubt where they say it was on Fifth Avenue.
OK.
So it wasn't the closest in the world.
And we lost that for a second.
Right.
So it's given us this address an Empire State Building is over there.
But at least we're in the general vicinity there with what we're trying to do.
OK.
So with this information we can now go ahead and work on our hiking up.